Juan Pérez Tejada 

Data Engineer / Full-Stack Web Developer 



 

Profile 

Data Engineer and Full-Stack Developer with 5 years of experience in Software 
Development, working with Python, SQL, Ruby, and JavaScript. Using Ruby on Rails, 
React and NextJS frameworks. Knowledge in Test Automation with RSpec and VCR, and 
implementing APIs for e-commerce platform, ensuring PCI compliance. Databricks 
Certified Data Engineer Associate. 



 

Capabilities 

Data Engineering 

Web Applications 

Test Automation 

Development of data 
pipelines following 
ETL/ELT process and 
multi-hop (medallion) 
architecture with Python, 
SQL and Databricks. 

Development of web 
applications built in Ruby 
on Rails and React, 
Javascript / ES6, HTML 
5, and CSS - across a 
variety of frameworks. 

 

Elaborate specs for unit and 
integration tests using 
libraries such as Rspec, 
Capybara, Selenium, VCR, 
Rswag, Pytest. 



 

Skills 

Ruby on Rails 

Python 

Langchain 

Javascript / ES6 

SQL 

Databricks 

 

React / NextJS 

DynamoDB 

AWS 

 

HTML5/CSS/SCSS 

ChromaDB 

GCP 



 

Education 

Full-Stack Web Development - Microverse 

Linguistics – National School of Anthropology and History 



 

Certifications 

Databricks Certified Data Engineer Associate 

First Place Winner at Wizeline Generative AI Hackathon 2023 



 

 

Experience 

APEX SYSTEMS 

August 2023 – March 2024 

 

Consultant (Data Engineer) 

Project: APEX IT 

Technical Environment: 

Python, SQL Server, Azure Data Studio, Jupyter Notebooks 

• Performing complex queries with SQL Server intended to be used with Power BI. 
• Automate common tasks with Python and Jupyter notebooks. 


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

APEX SYSTEMS 

July 2023 - Current 

 

Tech-Lead (Full-Stack Web Developer) 

Project: Talent Management Framework 

Technical Environment: 

Ruby on Rails, MySQL, Azure, Docker, React, JavaScript 

• Refactoring and developing a web app platform for helping directors to identify 
key metrics in the talent pool. 
• Suggesting required technical changes to deliver key features. 
• Performing code reviews and provide mentorship to team members. 


 

 

BIGCOMMERCE 

June 2022 – June 2023 

 

 

Consultant (Back-end Developer) 

Project: Channel Integrations 

Technical Environment: 

Ruby, Ruby on Rails, RSwag, RSpec, Postgres, Heroku 

• Developing and refactoring integrations of two different Points of Sale 
with Ruby on Rails Apps deployed on Heroku using PostgreSQL 
Database, allowing merchants to adopt an omnichannel strategy. 
• Creating tests and documentation of API endpoints with RSpec, RSwag 
and VCR, extending test coverage of applications over 80% and 
improving collaboration between back end and front-end teams. 
• Applying Agile methodology through continuous improvement, handling 
more than 70 merchant bugs reports and feature requests, ensuring 
customer satisfaction. 


 

 

MICROVERSE 

January 2022 – June 2022 

 

Code Reviewer 

Project: Student Success 

Technical Environment: 

Ruby, HTML5/CSS, React, Redux, JavaScript, Git, Github 

• Performing code reviews in GitHub of projects using HTML5/CSS3, 
JavaScript ES6, React, Ruby, Ruby on Rails. 
• Mentoring junior web developers to improve the quality of their code and 
giving them feedback to comply with business standards. 


 

 

XV DIGITAL 

April 2019 – February 2022 

 

Web Developer 

Project: NDA 

Technical Environment: 

HTML5/CSS, JavaScript, WordPress, Elementor 

• Developing and maintaining web pages using Wordpress, applying 
business requirements in Figma with HTML5/CSS3. 


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

AMS ADWERKS 

November 2018 – April 
2019 

 

Code Reviewer 

Project: Student Success 

Technical Environment: 

Ruby, HTML5/CSS, React, Redux, JavaScript, Git, Github 

• Developing a Google Sheet add-on with JavaScript for identifying 
keywords for advertising, reducing a 90% the workflow time. 


 

NATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF MEXICO (UNAM) 

April 2016 – June 2018 

 

Technical Assistant 

Project: UNAM Open Data Portal University Collections 

Technical Environment: 

HTML5/CSS, JavaScript, Google Ads 

• Developing procedures for elaborating 
reports to measure impact of publications, 
getting Facebook, Twitter and Google 
analytics metrics. 
• Delivering a simple dashboard to visualize 
images of collections available for social 
media with HTML5/CSS3. 


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LITS EBUSINESS 

February 2015 – April 2016 

 

Content Creator 

Projects: Ebusiness Hoy, Walmart, Steren 

Technical Environment: 

HTML, WordPress, Google Ads 

• Researching data and contacting people related 
to digital businesses for writing three daily notes 
and one weekly report about technological 
innovations and business opportunities. 
• SEO Writing for e-commerce sites, achieving that 
Walmart’s Landing Page ranked #1 on Google 
Search during the period of higher sales in 
Mexico. 


 

 



 


