www.apexsystems.com

Python engineer with AWS infrastructure deployment and architecture design.

Miguel Ángel Sánchez Ramírez

Computer Systems Engineer

Profile

Capabilities

Skills

Education

Experience

Aws lambda, Aws 
glue(crawler, ETL, jobs, 
DB), Aws Redshift, 
DynamoDB, Aws RDS, 
AWS EC2, AWS 
IAM(security groups, 
policies with python sdk 
etc)

Strong python 
knowledgde, NLP using 
scikit learn, Django, 
flask, redis, and 
serverless applications

Procedures, triggers, 
complex sql, views, etc.

AWS

Python

SQL

▪Aws Lambda
▪Aws Redshift
▪Aws Dynamodb
▪Aws glue






▪Flask
▪Django
▪NLP
▪SQL






▪NLTK
▪NoSql
▪AWS S3
▪AWS IAM






IPN(Eng.Computer systems engineer), UDG(Msc. Applied computing)

1 | Proprietary & Confidential | www.apexsystems.com 

May 2023 – Ongoing

Apex Systems, Guadalajara, Jalisco

Tech Lead

Project: The project was entirely to maintain software in production that was deployed in 
Azure cloud, the project required python knowledge and debug skills, databases were 
divided by environments located in windows servers, all azure pipelines deployed the code 
and unit tests were essential to ensure the correct deployment.

Technical Environment: Enviroment divided in 4, dev, stage, qa and prod, each one is 
served by windows server and each one is replicated using azure pipelines, Azure is used 
mainly to document and store the repositories of the company.

▪Provide support to production applications with python
▪Develop new software for a project that used forecasts in costs.
▪Suggest good practices like unit testings and documentation for new features
▪Bug fix in production environments.
▪Adapt to newcodeas fast as possible and be able to provideupdates on good 
code practices and propose newfeatures.







www.apexsystems.com

Experience

2 | Proprietary & Confidential | www.apexsystems.com 

Arkangeles, Mexico city

Python Developer

Project: Fintech for angel investors

Technical Environment: Aws and python djangowere the environment to work here, 
using python also to create chatbots and aws to support the entire backend infrastructure.

Most important Contribution to the industry:

Develop a webpage from scratch using aws cloud to design and deploy the entire solution, 
dynamo db and EC2 instance with a Linux AMI, load balancers and docker where the key 
to replicate the environment and to have backup in case of contingency, on top of that 
were other processes running to retrieve and store client information in a ciphered way, the 
cipher method was developed inhouse using python and the key stored in AWS secret 
manager.

▪Design the entire webpage from zero
▪Using AWS to deploy a chatbot using NLP.
▪Using AWS glue to enhancesome processeswith gluedb
▪Innovate using functional programming on python
▪Using AWS to deploy server using EC2 instances






Apr 2020 – May 2023

Mar 2018 – Apr 2019

TCS, Guadalajara, Jalisco

Python Developer

Project: ACI(American century investments) The project was entirely to develop 
architecture and innovate on new features using AWS and python.

Technical Environment: AWSentirely using python to maintain deploy and innovate, 
good practices and design to deploy infrastructure in AWS, using AWS to do ETL on large 
ammounts of data.

Most important Contribution to the industry:

SSDS or Self Service Data Solutions, was a large project that involved a team of 5 people 
to develop a platform where a user(IAM role) could query, train, and manipulate data in all 
stages, having specific permissions on each role to manipulate the data on AWS. The 
project involve in deploying in cloudformationan scalable, automated and maintainable 
architecture in AWS, deploying stacks and nested stacks to support all the infrastructure, 
other parts of the project involvedAws glue used mainly to transform the data received on 
a s3 bucket with triggers and crawlers the data was transformed from raw to parquet and 
stored in a sepparate bucket, involving lambdas, sqs queues and glue jobs to provision 
this solution to the client, finally having data transformed and loaded into glue tables and 
with Redshift spectrum query the data.

▪Develop AWS policies and infrastructure using AWS cloudformation
▪Develop AWS infrastructure and processes using AWS SDK for python
▪Innovate on new technologies and features using AWS like AWS Quicksight Q
▪Create a new infrastructure to support 1000 clients using IAM groups, Redshift, 
Glue and Lambdas
▪Translate client requirements into innovative and creative solutions on AWS







www.apexsystems.com

Koomkin, Mexico city

Python developer

Project: Facebook marketing campaigns, this project was automating and launching 
marketing campaigns over facebookads, it consisted in orchestrating and scheduling the ads 
and using ML creating the campaigns and lookalikes.

Technical Environment: The environment was over a windows server using scheduled 
scripts that executed and launched the ads via Facebook Api on python, there were process 
that ran asynchronously and synchronously.

Most important contribution to the industry:

Developing an algorithm to reduce the process time by 1/3 of the time, the algorithm consisted 
in substituting some calculations like the Levenstein by the cosine approach, using also async 
processes to reduce the amount of time also was key. This process overall involved in 
launching the marketing campaigns according to clusters made with ML.

▪Using Clustering the clients were grouped and distributed for launching specific 
processes for each cluster.
▪Using Levenstein and cosine distance to determine the match between keywords 
and synonyms.
▪Storing large amounts of image data on AWS s3
▪Maintaining current production software and updating it.
▪UsingNon-relational databases to obtain features and objects.






Experience

Sec 360

Backend Developer

Project: Security project based on pentesting and hacking the suite was developed on java 
with some scripts running python, AWS EC2 was used to host a server for the website and 
AWS s3 and RDS were used for storage.

Technical Environment: The Environment was entirely based on AWS cloud, having only 
production env to deploy new releases, and EC2 machine was used as a server to maintain 
the website.

▪Using java and python to maintain and develop new features for the suite.
▪Learning vulnerabilities on software and network.
▪Using scripts to renew the web certificate for https requests
▪Having face to face client interactions to create new features based on java and 
python.
▪Using s3 migration service to move large amounts of dataand rotating credentials






Mar 2018 – Apr 2020

Sep 2016 – Apr 2018


