Lucero Nava 

Python developer 



 

Profile 

Developer with 4 years of experience in Ruby on Rails, research and implementation of 
new Ruby gems in projects.. Possesses knowledge of SQL and has 8 months of 
experience working with Python, SQL, and ETLs. Currently, she is expanding her 
expertise by studying cloud services such as Azure and Databricks. Seeking opportunities 
to apply his experience and leadership in challenging and dynamic environments 



 

Capabilities 

Web Applications 

Data Management 
and Analysis 
Automation 

Product Development 

Demonstrated ability to 
develop efficient and 
scalable web applications 
using Ruby on Rails 
framework. Proficient in 
Active Record and 
implementing gems as 
flipper, Rubocop, Rspec, 
regex, faker in different 
projects. 

Data management, 
automate processes to 
improve efficiency and 
accuracy in data, Migration 
Monitoring, Scripting and 
Automation, Data 
Discrepancy Detection, 
CSV Report Generation. 

Developing skills in cloud-
based solutions for storage, 
computation, and analytics. 
Eager to leverage cloud 
technologies to enhance 
scalability, flexibility, and 
efficiency of applications 



 

Skills 

Ruby 

Rails 

Python 

Azure 

Databricks 

SQL 

 

Numpy 

Pandas 

Rspec 

 

Active Record 

 

 



 

Education 

Major: Bachelor's Degree in Computer Engineering. Universidad de Guadalajara. 

 



 

Certifications 



 

 

Experience 

Apex Systems 

2023 - 2024 




 

Data engineer 

Project: Apex IT 

Technical Environment: 

• Management and maintenance of databases using SQL. My primary 
responsibility was to perform extensive queries to review migrations between 
servers, ensuring data integrity and consistency. This process involved 
comparing tables between servers to detect discrepancies in both data and 
number of records. 


 

• In order to optimize and streamline this process, my colleague and I identified 
that manual query execution was consuming considerable time, especially for 
queries involving large data sets. To address this issue, we implemented an 
innovative solution using Python. We developed a Python script that established 
connections to the databases on each server and executed specific queries to 
obtain the data from the relevant tables. We then used Python libraries to 
compare the results obtained and detect any discrepancies between them. 


 

As a result of this approach, we were able to automate and significantly speed 
up the process of comparing data between servers. In addition, we implemented 
the automatic generation of a CSV file that detailed the tables with differences 
and provided information on the discrepancies detected. This initiative 
significantly reduced the time and resources spent on this task and improved the 
accuracy and efficiency of the process, ensuring data consistency and integrity 
across all server environments. 

 

 

 

BigCommerce-Google 

2021 - 2023 

 

Ruby developer 

Project: Ads and Listings on Google 

Technical Environment: 

• Ads and Listings on Google is an app that connects your store to Google 
Shopping. Once connected, your store’s products can be included in Google’s 
free listings and promoted using Performance Max campaigns. 


 

To achieve this we worked with google merchant center, google ads and 
BigCommerce API´s. We also made use of active record to store information 
from the client's stores and synchronization messages from the stores to verify if 
there were errors or if the synchronization finished correctly. We use some gems 
to catch errors, enabling functions for only some customers with flags, and 
creating routines to run hourly synchronization of inventory between stores. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BigCommerce-Square 

2020 - 2021 




 

Ruby developer 

Project: POS - Square 

Technical Environment: 

• Square POS is an app, built and maintained by BigCommerce, that allows you to 
send a Square location catalog to your BigCommerce store, or vice versa. The 
app also allows you to optionally automatically sync stock levels between the two 
platforms. 


 

Work on the communication and inventory synchronization between square and 
BigCommerce. The biggest challenge in this application was to solve the 
inventory synchronization problems in real time between both platforms and the 
error handling between the API's. We also integrate multiple point-of-sale 
channels for customers. 

 

 

BigCommerce-Clover 

2019 - 2020 

 

Ruby developer 

Project: POS - Clover integration with BigCommerce 

Technical Environment: 

• Instant synchronization of product and inventory data and images between 
BigCommerce and Clover. The connection allows you to have the entire store 
under control on all channels. 


 

I worked on the integration of Clover with BigCommerce, in this application we 
worked from scratch, from proof of concept to finalize the project. The biggest 
challenge was to start balancing the inventory between BigCommerce and 
Clover, since we had to make the necessary operations to not have wrong 
values in any of the two applications, we investigated solutions to synchronize in 
real time the inventory of each category of each product and its variants. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 


