Carolina Medellin Hernández 

Sr. Data Engineer 



 

Profile 

Perceptive and logical data analyst with proven ability to 
communicate with both technical professionals and end users to 
identify and translate business requirements. Offering 4 years of 
experience driving data accuracy and integrity. Business and data 
analyst with 12 years of experience across diverse industries 
(Banking, Pharma, Logistics, Retail, Insurance, Consulting). 



 

Capabilities 

 Data Engineer 

 

Expertise in analysis and testing of business requirements to drive 
deployment of applications, business processes and system 
solutions. Highly analytical and detailed with documented track 
record in full software development life cycle (SDLC) 
methodologies and Agile techniques. Committed to providing 
superior service and client communication. 



 

Skills 

Project Management 

Data Engineer 

Data Warehouse Consultant 

Leadership 

 

QA Manager 

Systems Analyst 

 

Teamwork 

Senior BI Consultant 



 

Education 

Tecnológico de Estudios Superiores de CI, Computer Systems 
Engineering.Class of 2008 



 

Certifications 

MicroStrategy 10 Certification 

Certified Project Designer (CPD) - Version 9.4.1 

ISTQB® Certified Tester, Foundation Level 

10.413: Advanced Documents: Interactivity & Joining Datasets 
Knowledge Exam 

Standard CMMI Appraisal Method for Process Improvement 
(SCAMPI) 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


 

 

 

 

 

Experience 

Agile Thoughts 

2014- Current 

 

Data Engineer 

 

Insurance 

• Extract, Transform, Load tasks, maintaining and data integrity. 
Developed and delivered business information solutions. Worked 
with customers to understand needs and provide solutions. 


 

Managed Services 

• Developed detailed maintenance schedules to maximize 
equipment lifetimes. Reviewed technical documentation. 
Documented all changes and actions in computer-based tracking 
system. Diagnosed and troubleshot problems, repairing and 
restoring machines to peak performance. Explained diagnostic 
findings to customers. Assisted team members to troubleshooting 
and diagnostics. 


 

Retail /Logistics 

• Create an external facing portal/dashboards using MicroStrategy 
for a large retailer in Mexico City. Participate in all the cycle for 
the MicroStrategy project (building schema objects, public objects 
and dashboards and defining the security model). Build 
MicroStrategy Dashboards related to Finance for a Logistics 
retailer in USA. 


 

 

 

BBVA Bancomer (Former BBVA) 

2018 – 2014 

 

System Analyst 

 

• Coordination of the business requirements for the Portal 
Bancomer.com (update campaigns, sweepstakes and BD, 
testing), deletion of cards from the BNet Mexico, review of log 
management on UNIX computers. 
• Contribute to fulfilment of the objectives and levels of business 
attention; keep the portal in competition in the market. Contribute 
to the quality and cleaning of code to make it palatable to see it. 





• Responsible for the management and publication of the contents 
of the portal audience of Bancomer.com, attention to specific 
cases of online banking (private area), PM within public and 
private zone, administration and configuration of equipment. 
• Management testing, planning and specification tests, research, 
documentation and concerning Testing methodology. As well, as 
aid in the improvement of processes and adaptation of 
methodology. 




 


