 

Leonardo Gabriel Vallin Langarica 


Guadalajara, Jalisco México 
Phone: +52 1 3315297320 
Email: Leonardo.vallin@outlook.com 
or Leonardo.vallin@hotmail.com 

 

Summary: 
Leonardo is an experienced Database Engineer with more than 8 years working experience in IT 
consulting companies as well Banking and Telemarketing companies, skilled in T-SQL Development, 
Database Administrator, BI and ETL development. He´s a proactive person who looks a better way to do 
my job, is a self-taught person that always try catch up with the new implementations that are released 
inside of his area of expertise. 

Experience 

EPAM Systems Inc., Guadalajara Jalisco, México May 2021 – Present 

• As Part of the Data Engineering Team, we develop a data migration for Expedia from Qubole to 
Dremio, we develop the virtual datasets and reflections as well as visualizations in Tableau for 
the client to be able to compare performance between the old platform (qubole) against the 
new platform (dremio), also contribute to the GitHub repo creating data quality classes using 
Cerberus library to validate the data retrieved is valid before move it to Dremio. 


Apex Systems, Guadalajara Jalisco, México October 2017 – May 2021 

• As part of the Data Engineering team I had to opportunity to collaborate in different projects 
using tools as SQL Server & SSIS to create EDW systems, SSRS, Tableau & PowerBI to create 
reporting systems for different clients, also had the opportunity to implement infrastructures 
using the approach of IaC with Terraform, created an integrations between SQL Server and 
Hadoop using SSIS, Polybase, Hive and PowerBI. 


MDM & Data Quality Support, Dextra Guadalajara Jalisco, México September 2016 – September 2017 

• Informatica MDM 4 level support, monitoring the main application to be up and runing, if not 
restart the services and also redeploy all the application using unix commands. 
tools Redhat 6.2, Informatica MDM 
• As part of the Data Quality team we review the flow of the information and how the information 
is stored In the DB we also check the integrity of the data. Tools used Informatica power center, 
Oracle 11g, korn shell & bash scripting 


 

Database Engineer, iTexico Guadalajara Jalisco, México April 2014-September 2016 

• Gen2fund – in this project I worked as an ETL developer and create a SSIS solution to consume 
the data generated by Intacct Cloud ERP. 



• Clarifire - in this project worked as a MySQL admin/developer implementing SQL script to 
initialize the database, creating loading script to insert dummy data into the Database, keeping 
updated the database Model design, creating scripts to back up the database, keep in sync all 
the servers with the most current version of the Database. 
• iTexico Nova Project – implementing SSRS to support our internal needs. 
• Viewpoint 360 – implementing best practices as a SQL developer creating Stored Procedures, 
views, functions, implementing SSRS & keeping in sync the schema database between DEV and 
QA server. 
• Capform - implementing best practices as a SQL developer creating Stored Procedures, views, 
functions, implementing SSRS. 


MIS specialist, Teleperformance group, Guadalajara Jalisco, México January 2012- March 2014 

• In this company I provide support to the Management Information area and we were in charge 
of providing information about the CRS (Customer Service Representatives) metrics and 
statistics about their performance, depending in customer needs, I implemented SSIS SSRS and 
creation of stored procedures to be able to show the information needed by the customer. 
• In this position I started also to work as a DBA Jr in SQL server 2008, 2012, providing 
maintenance plans, and backup/restore plans of several databases. 


1st Level support, Teleperformance group, Guadalajara Jalisco, México May 2011- January 2012 

• Providing 1st level support to end users, repairing hardware and making OS images with all the 
tools needed by the end user. 


Education 

• Bachelor’s degree in Information Technologies 2006- 2011 Universidad de Guadalajara. 


Certifications 

• Scrum Master by www.scrum.org (PSM I) 


Key Skills 

Microsoft SQL Server 

SSRS 
SSIS 
TSQL 
PostgreSQL 
MySQL 

C# Scripting 

Hadoop 

Hive 

PowerBI 

Terraform 
Cloudera 



 

 
Languages 
Spanish: native 


English: proficiency 
Deutsch: basic 



