 

Luis Alberto Consuelo 

 

ETL/Python Developer 

 

 

 

Profile 

Computational Intelligence engineer with over 3 years of experience as ETL and Python developer. 
Recognized for deliver adaptable, innovative and documented solutions with excellent results. 

 

 

Skills 

ETL 

Development 

Maintenance 

 

Development, maintenance and 
testing on multiple ETL process 
using tools and languages like 
Informatica, DataStage and python 
to make our process more fluid and 
using the less resources as possible. 

Development on multiple 
programming languages like Python, 
shell scripting and Java to perform 
ETL processes following all the 
coding standards. 

 

Documentation on multiple ETL 
processes to have in a ordered way 
all the information about each 
process. 
Maintenance on ETL process that 
uses different kind of technologies. 

 

 

Technical 

Python/R/Java 

Linux/Unix/Hadoop 

 

 

Shell scripting 

SQL 

 

 

Control-M 

DB2/Netezza/SQL Server 

 

 

Informatica 

Hive 

 

 

 

Education 

Bachelor - Engineer in Computation Intelligence, University Autónoma de Aguascalientes. 

 

 

 

 

Certifications 

 

 

 

 

 

Experience 

Tata Consultancy Services 

January 2017 – Current 

Developer 

January 2019 - Current 

Project: Auto loss modelling 

Technical Environment: Production – Shell scripting, NIFI, Python & Control-M 

The main purpose of the project is, get all losses data about auto policies and customer details to 
calculate, summarize and deliver in a simple form to our business customer, high value information 
that make possible to choose the best option for each of our customers. 

 

• Python and shell scripting 
• NIFI 
• Control-M 
• Testing 





• Documentation 


 

Project: BUOY pilot 

June 2018 – December 2018 

Technical Environment: Production – Shell Scripting, Python, Rest API, Hadoop, Hive & Control-M 

The main purpose of the project is, get all information from an IOT product to delivery important 
information to the customer about the usage of the device and delivery the best service and 
solution for each of our clients. 

• Python and shell scripting 
• Hadoop 
• Linux 
• Documentation 
• Training new resources 
• Hive 
• Control-M 


 

 

 

 

Universidad Autónoma de Aguascalientes 

August 2015 – December 2016 

Developer 

Project: development of evolutionary algorithms 

Technical Environment: Development – Python & R 

Research, Create, Develop, compare and document new evolutionary algorithms created by Rogelio 
Sanchez Salinas with the current evolutionary algorithms, tested in manipulated environments and 
with real life problems like TSP. Delivery of new research articles and free source packages. 

• Python and R Development 
• Documentation (Research articles) 
• Testing 


 

 

 

Administradora de Personal Empresarial 

January 2016 – August 2016 

Technical support: 

Project: Infinitum Technical support 

Technical Environment: Production 

Give the best technical support to deliver solutions of high value for each customer about infinitum 
service. 

• Correct deal with customer 
• Solve network issues 
• Configure and fix DNS, optical fiber, ADSL 
• Configure routers and modems 
• Configure home networks 


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 


