Marcela Sanchez 

Senior Data Engineer 

A collaborative data engineerr with more than 10 yoe designing and executing solutions for 

Profile 

data warehouse problems involving multiple data sources, ETL tools, platforms, and scripting. 
Capabilities 

Skills 

Education 

Certifications 

ETL development Data Modeling Data Analysys 
Development of ETLs to load 
information from different 
Design and implementation of DWH 
data models to accomplish BI 
Data analysis with SQL and 
other data-base administrators. 
sources to target Database. strategies. 

Hadoop/Hive DataStage Control M 
SQL Teradata 
PL/SQL Microstrategy 
Informatica PC Shell Scripting 

Bachelor degree on Systems and Telematics Engineering – Universidad Justo Sierra-2005-2009 



Experience 


Tata Consultancy Services Dec 2016 – Currently 
ETL Developer / Project Lead 
Technical Environment: DataStage 11.5, Control M, Unix (Shell script), Hadoop – (Bee line, 
Hive tables) 

• 
Working with a team conformed by two developers per site, I am the front of the project in Gdj, 
• 
Monitoring and maintenance of productive cycles, versions migrations, information quality verify. 
• 
In charg of ten people, providing knowledge/feedback, meetings with delivery manager, trainings. 
• 
ETL/Database/Scripts maintenance 
Global Hitts Apr 2014 – Nov 2016 
Senior Consultant Informatica Power Center. 
Technical Environment: Teradata, Informatica Power Center 9.5.1 and Microstrategy 9 

• 
Design of ETL processes (Extract, Transform and Load). 
• 
Experience with Teradata, SQL Server and SQL concepts. 
• 
Experience with ETL platforms – Informatica. 
SIS SA deCV Sep 2011 – Apr 2014 
Systems Engineer 
Technical Environment: Informatica Power Center 9.0.1., Made Siebel and BRM Migration, with 
documentation migration analysis. 

• 
Worked in the data quality business unit for different projects (El Palacio de Hierro, Home Depot, 
Pepsico Co, among others) 
• 
To use ETL Datastage 8.5 
• 
Attend meetings with managers and functional for obtaining information about data transformation 
rules. 
• 
Using ETL Datastage 8.7 to create business rules and make a clearance duplication of information in the 
database. 
• 
Informatica Power Center 9.0.1. Made Siebel and BRM Migration, with documentation migration 
analysis. 
Modatelas Nov 2009 – Aug 2011 
Sr. Software Engineer / Product Functional Design Lead: 
Technical Environment: SQL 

• 
Worked in the Department of Systems in the Special Projects Department. 
• 
Implemented a project to automate sales and inventory of various products. 
• 
Alongside the team, Plan, design, create, train, and launched various processes for good 
implementation of this project. 

